We're following more
breaking news in to CNN.
This out of the Middle East.
According to a Hezbollah run TV agency,
a loud explosion
has been heard
in the southern suburbs of Beirut.
Let's take you there
live with CNN's Ben Wedeman.
Ben, what more are you learning
about this explosion?
Of course,
we know that within the last a half hour,
there was a large explosion
in what's known as the Heart break
neighborhood of southern Beirut.
That's an area
where many of the leaders of
Hezbollah have been known to operate.
Now, we don't have a lot of details.
We know that
some local channels are saying
that the one of the building
hit was a residential building.
We don't know about casualties
at this point.
It still seems to be
a fairly chaotic scene.
We have seen pictures of smoke rising
from that part of the city,
but certainly
that is what we know at this point.
It is the first time
the southern suburbs of Beirut
have been hit
since early January,
when the Israelis had killed
a senior Hamas leader who was in
that area.
But as I said,
this is the first strike since then.
And Hezbollah has made it very clear
all along that if Beirut is struck,
they will answer accordingly.
They have said
that they will meet escalation
with escalation
in the aftermath
of last Saturday's attack on the Golan
in the
Israeli occupied Syrian Golan
Heights, that left 12 children dead.
So perhaps this is the first major
Israeli response to that attack.
Doris
and Ben, just to be
clear,
when this you're saying
this happened in the Beirut suburbs.
Can you give us some specificity
on what Hezbollah might see
as, an attack, maybe Beirut proper
versus in the suburbs?
Will this matter?
Well, we call it
it's called the Beirut suburb.
It's the El Dia in Arabic,
but it really is
part of the city of Beirut.
It's between where I am,
down by the port,
and the and the airport.
So it really is Beirut proper, despite
what we call it.
And of course, that has been made clear
time and time again, by Hezbollah there.
That's a red line.
Now, just the other day,
I spoke with the foreign
minister of Lebanon,
who told me that
through diplomatic channels
they had received
assurances from, their friends.
He called them,
that Beirut,
that the Israeli response
would be limited.
And the Lebanese government interpreted
that as meaning,
that Beirut,
the southern suburbs of Beirut,
and the airport would not be targeted.
That perhaps was not a very correct
interpretation of those
so-called assurances. Brianna.
Ben, please stand by for us in Beirut.
We want to bring in CNN
military analyst, former
general Mark curling,
who is joining us now live.
general,
thank you so much for being with us.
Walk us through the significance
of these explosions
happening in Beirut, and specifically,
what would give you evidence
or what would, suggest to you
that this was, in fact,
an IDF led attack?
We have nothing that leads to that
just yet,
but it's the possibility
of an IDF attack.
Usually it's not done
this early, even in the evening
after sunset.
The IDF usually waits
until the later, hours
of the of the evening,
where they can assure that there's no,
collateral damage on civilian casualties
when they conduct a strike.
But when you're talking about explosions,
you don't really know where they come
from.
And again,
I would suggest, because this is,
Lebanon, this is Beirut,
that there is the potential
for other types of explosion
in this area.
So you can't conclude anything just yet.
I do, general,
I do want to stop you there
because Israel is now
Israel is now claiming responsibility
for this strike in southern Beirut.
So obviously that's,
important information and changes.
your calculus of how you're seeing
this explain the significance.
Now that we know that we just literally
got that in the Israeli
military, saying that it carried out
a targeted strike in southern Beirut.
Well, Brianna, thanks for
being the scout on the screen line
right there.
As soon as you've confirmed it,
then you can talk about it
a whole lot differently.
The thing that I was about to say,
Ben's reporting about,
you know, promises of not striking
or having limited strikes
doesn't necessarily mean
they're not going to strike in Beirut.
There are areas there.
we're in and around the capital
where Hezbollah has centers.
Let's just call on that.
Anything from cells
to intelligence centers
to military command structures
in and around the area of Beirut,
they've always had that.
So when you're talking
about the potential to limit that
and not go near the capital area
or near the airport,
I just find that a little bit, and not,
it's a little bit of hyperbole
from the standpoint of someone
hoping for the best
that this wouldn't happen.
So if it is, and I'll say one more thing,
if it's just us,
a couple of explosions
has been has been reported.
Two explosions.
That is a proportional response so far.
it could get bigger.
But when you're talking about
what happened the other day
with the killing of civilians
and especially children
in that, in that, playground
or that soccer field,
you're talking about the potential
for a much greater response by Israel.
And again, this could just be step one.
But this is a proportional response,
not only against Hezbollah, but against,
it's a signal
to the Lebanese government
of get control of these terrorist
that are living among you.
And I want to read
and paraphrase
a portion of the statement
that we just got from the IDF
taking responsibility.
It says, quote,
the IDF carried out
a targeted strike
in Beirut
on the commander responsible
for the murder of the children
in the Golan Heights
and the killing of numerous
additional Israeli civilians.
General,
I think the concern has been going back
to October 7th,
of a wider regional conflict.
the United States
has repeatedly warned Israel
about any potential attacks
going into Beirut specifically.
But we heard,
John Kirby,
the spokesperson
for the NSC, recently
say that,
concerns about a wider conflict based on
an Israeli response are exaggerated.
How do you see where
the conflict stands now
versus what this could
potentially lead up to?
Hey.
Well, there were a
couple of actions, Boris,
and you're exactly right.
John Kirby did say all those things.
And I think it was as a warning
to all that,
an Israeli attack
into southern Lebanon,
a ground attack, as it were, or,
an extensive
air campaign
in Lebanon would be significant,
and it would not be to Israel's advantage
because it would open up a second front
while they're continuing
with their actions in Gaza.
But,
truthfully, Israel has to respond
to that kind of attack from Lebanon.
So, again, a proportional response
versus a ground incursion
of southern Lebanon,
or either
a massive airstrike
or an air campaign
against various targets
inside of Lebanon.
And again,
it's early yet that could occur.
More strikes could be conducted.
But this is a signal
if the Israeli government
and the Israeli Defense Forces say
it was a kinetic strike
against an identified target
of an individual
that conducted the command
and control of that strike into,
into Israel a few days ago.
I think we're seeing a good thing.
It's it's
something that
that I was talking to
CNN on Saturday
saying it would be devastating for Israel
to open a second
front with a major ground incursion
or a massive air campaign.
And it appears, at least so far,
that they've limited their strikes
to specifically the target that,
was the commander of
of the strike
that occurred the other day.
Yeah.
general,
if you could stand by for us,
we'll come back to you.
I do want to bring in
Colorado Congressman Jason Crow,
who we had stick around,
with us as we got word of this
news, is a former Army
Ranger is also on the House,
foreign affairs and Intel committees.
As we get word of this,
a targeted strike.
Israel says
Israeli military says
on this Hezbollah commander
that they say,
was behind
this attack that killed 12 children
in northern Israel.
What are you
what are your thoughts
as you see this news?
Well, Israel absolutely has a right
and I'd even say an obligation
to respond to this attack
that killed 12 children by Hezbollah.
But why do we talk about
issues of proportionality
is that it goes directly
to the concern
about escalation
and amount of talk
about why escalation in this case
is a is a larger concern
than maybe it has been in the past.
what we have to do is we have to zoom out
and talk about Iran.
Iran works
through these regional proxies,
these proxy forces.
Right? Hamas is one of them.
Hezbollah is one of them, the Houthis.
They they have other militias
and forces throughout the Middle East.
But Hezbollah is the largest
and the most capable
of all of those proxy forces. Right.
So the concern about escalation
is the most acute
when we're talking about Hezbollah.
Right.
The thing that could lead to a larger
regional war
is if Hezbollah opens up
a northern front,
they have far more rockets
fire more personnel,
far more sophisticated weaponry
and more capability across the board.
And that could be very devastating
in the North.
And Hezbollah has vowed that
depending on the Israeli response,
they wouldn't go to war
with Israel alone.
To your point,
it would be these Iranian backed groups.